1.In order to understand how
genome complexity influences transcriptome assembly, we
used two model organisms: D. melanogaster and S. pombe,
which differed in genomic properties[comparision 2011]

2.map transcript to genome reference, need a translation from genome to transcript?

3.Mapping reads to transcripts
To get assembly statistics for the number of reads that
could be mapped back to transcripts (RMBT) , we used
bowtie (version 0.12.7) [17] to map back all input short
reads to the reconstructed transcripts, with parameters
“-q Cphred33-quals Cfr -1 fq1 -2 fq2 -v 3”.[comparision 2011]
这一步的目的是什么?

4.如何evaluate拼接rna的结果？
Expression quintiles
Short reads used for assembly were aligned to the CDS
sequences by Tophat (v1.2.0) [19], and then custom PERL
scripts were applied to computing normalized gene
expression level by calculating RPKM (Reads Per Kilobase
of exon model per Million mapped reads) of each transcript.
Only paired end mapped reads were considered in
this study. Gene was defined as expressed if it’s RPKM >0,
and then all expressed genes were divided into expression
quintiles at 10% intervals for the evaluation.

5.hwo to evaluate gene coverage and integrity of assembled
transcripts?

6.full-length transcripts? partial-length transcripts?

7.Full-length, partial-length, and fused CDS

8.Expression quintiles
Short reads used for assembly were aligned to the CDS
sequences by Tophat (v1.2.0) [19], and then custom PERL
scripts were applied to computing normalized gene
expression level by calculating RPKM (Reads Per Kilobase
of exon model per Million mapped reads) of each transcript.
Only paired end mapped reads were considered in
this study. Gene was defined as expressed if it’s RPKM >0,
and then all expressed genes were divided into expression
quintiles at 10% intervals for the evaluation.

9. depth and coverage?

10. pair-end数据如何用？inserts library？
貌似pairt-end的reads可以合成一个较长的read？
For transcriptome assembly, longer reads are generally
preferred, as they greatly reduce the complexity of
the assembly. It is worth noting, however, that the problem
posed by short reads can be alleviated by using a
paired-end protocol, in which 75C150 bp are sequenced
from both ends of short DNA fragments (100C250 bp),
and the overlapping reads are computationally joined
together to form a longer read40. Paired reads from
long inserts (500C1,000 bp) offer long-range exon connectivity,
in a similar way to reads obtained using 454
technology.

11.Data pre-processing. Removing artefacts from RNAseq
data sets before assembly improves the read quality,
which, in turn, improves the accuracy and computational
efficiency of the assembly. This step is straightforward
and can be executed using several tools41C44. In
general, three types of artefacts should be removed from
raw RNA-seq data: sequencing adaptors43,44, which originate
from failed or short DNA insertions during library
preparation; low-complexity reads43; and near-identical
reads that are derived from PCR amplification15. Adaptor
and low-complexity sequences can lead to misassemblies.
PCR duplicates are more common in long-insert
libraries, and their presence can skew mate-pair statistics
that are used by many assemblers for scaffolding.
When their identities are known, rRNA and other
RNA contaminants should also be removed to improve
assembly speed.
那些工具可以支持这些操作。

12.Alternative
transcription start and stop sites can also be inferred
based on the 5′ cap or poly(A) signals (if cap- or endspecific
experimental protocols are used)51,53
51：Nagalakshmi, U. et al. The transcriptional landscape
of the yeast genome defined by RNA sequencing.
Science 320, 1344C1349 (2008).
53：Ozsolak, F. et al. Comprehensive polyadenylation
site maps in yeast and human reveal pervasive
alternative polyadenylation. Cell 143, 1018C1029
(2010).