1.Mapping reads to transcripts
To get assembly statistics for the number of reads that
could be mapped back to transcripts (RMBT) , we used
bowtie (version 0.12.7) [17] to map back all input short
reads to the reconstructed transcripts, with parameters
“-q Cphred33-quals Cfr -1 fq1 -2 fq2 -v 3”.[comparision 2011]

2.BLAT[18] with default
parameters was applied to map the reconstructed transcripts
from each assembler to non-identical reference
coding sequences and reference genomes.[comparision 2011]

3.In order to examine how genome with different complexity
affects assembly outcomes, we selected public
RNA-Seq data from two model organisms as benchmark:
fruit fly (D. melanogaster) and fission yeast (S. pombe).[comparision 2011]
应该说fission yeast简单一些，fruit fly要复杂一些。

4.When measured in the number of assembled transcripts,
total bases of transcripts, mean length, N50, percentage of
low quality transcripts, number of long-transcripts (≥1kb),
and number of reads that could be mapped back to transcripts
(RMBT), we observed significant improvement on
the outcomes when MK strategy was applied to each program.

5.测序基础相关
http://www.bioinfosky.com/forum.php?mod=viewthread&tid=862&reltid=956&pre_pos=1&ext=
比如，人类基因组包含有30亿个碱基对，其中大约只有5万个基因转录成mRNA分子，而转录后的mRNA仅部分被翻译生成功能性的蛋白质。与基因组不同，转录组更有时间空间性。比如， 我们人体大部分细胞具有一模一样的基因，而即使同一细胞在不同的生长时期及生长环境下，其基因表达情况也是不完全相同的。所以，除了异常的mRNA降解现象（如转录衰减）以外，转录组反映的是特定条件下活跃表达的基因。

6.第三代测序技术非常可怕。1、它实现了DNA聚合酶内在自身的反应速度，一秒可以测10
个碱基，测序速度是化学法测序的2万倍。2、它实现了DNA聚合酶内在自身的
processivity（延续性，也就是DNA聚合酶一次可以合成很长的片段），一个反应就可
以测非常长的序列。 二代测序现在可以测到上百个碱基，但是三代测序现在就可以测
几千个碱基。这为基因组的重复序列的拼接提供了非常好的条件。3、它的精度非常高
，达到99.9999%。
此外，它还有两个应用是二代测序所不具备的。
第一个是直接测RNA的序列。既然DNA聚合酶能够实时观测，那么以RNA为模板复制DNA的
逆转录酶也同样可以。RNA的直接测序，将大大降低体外逆转录产生的系统误差。
第二个是直接测甲基化的DNA序列。实际上DNA聚合酶复制A、T、C、G的速度是不一样的
。正常的C或者甲基化的C为模板，DNA聚合酶停顿的时间不同。根据这个不同的时间，
可以判断模板的C是否甲基化。

Pacific Biosciences公司预计2010年或者2011年就会推出商业化的测序仪器。在不远
的将来，如果他们能和二代测序一样集成100万个纳米微孔，那么一台仪器15分钟就能
够准确地测出一个人的基因组。以后每个人的基因组测序成本将变成100美元，人人都
可以消费得起。想想人类基因组计划耗资30亿美元，费时十几年，无数科学家参与其中
，技术的革新意义是多么重大啊！

7.Despite
these advantages, sequence reads obtained from the common NGS platforms, including Illumina,
SOLiD, and 454, are often very short, ranging from 35bp to 500bp

8.rna 测序使用pcr的方法会导致含有GC的序列coverage比较低，这样使得coverage的分布不均匀。
non-pcr的方法可以解决这个问题，但是错误率增高。
PCR amplification results
in a low sequencing coverage for transcripts or regions
within a transcript that have a high GC content31. This
can, in turn, cause gaps in the assembled transcripts
and can cause other transcripts to be missing from the
assembly altogether. Amplification-free protocols have
been developed to overcome this problem31,32. The latest
single-molecule sequencing technologies from Helicos
and Pacific Biosciences do not require PCR amplification
before sequencing33. The Helicos system can even
directly sequence RNAs without cDNA library construction1,34,
which should greatly reduce biases in sequencing
coverage. However, these single-molecule technologies
suffer from high error rates.

9. reference based assembly 优点：
The reference-based transcriptome
assembly strategy has several advantages. Because this
approach transforms a large assembly problem (millions
of reads) into many smaller assembly problems
(for example, independent assemblies of each locus
that contain thousands of reads or less), assembly can
be solved using parallel computing and can run efficiently
on machines with only a few gigabytes of RAM.
Contamination or sequencing artefacts are not a major
concern for this strategy, because they are not expected
to align to the reference genome. More importantly, the
reference-based strategy is very sensitive and can assemble
transcripts of low abundance. Because the underlying
genome sequence is already known20, small gaps within
the transcript that have been caused by a lack of read
coverage can be filled in using the reference sequence17.
Similarly, this strategy tends to generate longer UTRs,
which usually have a lower sequencing coverage16.
Owing to the high sensitivity of this approach, it allows
users to discover novel transcripts that are not present
in the current annotation, as in general such transcripts
have lower expression levels.

10. combined reference-based and de novo strageties:
如果reference 质量高，先reference 

11.data structures need to accommodate multiple
transcripts per locus, owing to alternative splicing.
这句话这么理解：由于rna是选择性的剪接了dna，所以不同的rna
可能剪接了同一段dna序列，所以在构建的de bruijn graph中，
一个碱基对可能被多条rna经过使用。


